---
title: How To Get Valuable Advice
layout: post
tags:
 - life
 - advice
---

Mark Suster recently wrote an article called ‘[How to make sense of conflicting startup advice](http://www.bothsidesofthetable.com/2014/08/30/here-is-how-to-make-sense-of-conflicting-startup-advice/)'.

I'm always seeking advice, whether it’s through blogs, podcasts, asking people, etc -- and over the years I've developed my own framework for getting value out of advice. 

While Mark's points are absolutely correct, I’m going to try and simplify and apply it more broadly – how do you get value out of any advice? 

The core of how to understand advice is 2 things – to know where you are & what you want, and also to know where the opposing party is & what they want.

**Know Where You Are & What You Want**

Frequently people that are asking for advice don’t have any idea of what they want. What they are asking for is to get persuaded in some direction or to hear an echo of their own thoughts. This is a flawed way to begin seeking advice. If you don't know what you want, no amount on advice will get you there. Know the end destination.

Second is to know where you currently stand. That means understanding your skills, perception, network, strengths, weaknesses, etc. Someone who is coming out of MIT is starting from a very different place than someone who is coming out of culinary school. If you don't know where you currently are and what resources you have, you can't chart out a clear path to your end goal. 

**Know Where They Are & Where They Want To Go**

When you need more guidance, you ask people. There are endless quantities of advice out there, and it can be tough to navigate. For every argument in one direction, there’s an equally convincing argument in the other. Blindly asking everyone for advice isn’t going to help. 

What’s important is to make sure that you seek out the advice that is most relevant to you. Identify people who have not only gone where you’d like to go, but also started from a similar spot. People are prisoners of their own perspective, and they often give advice to themselves instead of doling out tailored advice based on your context.

<hr>

I liken this to charting out a course on a map. To get somewhere, you need to know where you want to go. To get there, you need to draw a line from where you currently are to the end goal. If you need to ask for advice, you ask others who have gone to the same place from a similar starting point. 

This is not to say that you should only take advice from people who are exactly the same. Ask a bunch of people for advice, but remember to temper their advice with their context. In many cases the advice itself isn’t important, but it is valuable to understand the framework in which people make decisions. You can then learn from that and improve your own decision making framework.

